position and all the variations we've
seen so here we play here and why I got
sent a and here you probably come back
and do the corner but what you want to
do is fix yourself before attacking the
opponent so if you go here and then
we'll assume that black goes here
because that's usually the next best
move but now here's the way to think
about the situation you don't attack in
this group you won't gain as much as
black get over here but now the position
you want to think about blacks got one
possible weak group and white has
absolutely none now and if you can
detect this weak group in sintang and
profit in synteny then you can just play
elsewhere simply meaning forcing so this
is probably better for white than this
one because here what gets this move and
now there's no sin type moves for white
whereas if you do it this way then black
plays here why it might have moves like
this which can start attacking this dome
and detecting this group at the same
time so we say that we fix ourselves and
then attack because if we fix ourselves
then black will not have any forcing
moves on us now let's say black fix
themself now it's an even exchange we
both fix ourselves and now I get sente
so what usually wants to go from
whatever it's worth more and then like
the star moves like these so the point
here is if we attack first and then we
have to come back and fix ourselves we
don't get as much as if we just fixed
ourselves and attacked next so you want
to fix your groups before attacking your
opponent
also play a lot of games and in your
games try to figure out where the weak
groups are and once weak and what's not
that all comes with experience now some
may say this white groups not weak well
if they do here's a way to judge that
can black attack white and so we start
looking at white plays a move elsewhere
can white it woke and black attack this
group
well hopefully here's black and this
move threatens to surround white very
harshly what pretty much must defend
this next move and now we can keep
pushing this white through like this and
this move also turns just around white
we probably should read a little bit
let's say white jumps again and then we
can go here now blacks profit here is he
got this wall and white still can't
connect immediately so what's still
gonna have a weak group in the center
because he can't connect immediately and
he has no eye shape yet still so let's
say black defends and black and still
it's half way but even if luck chooses
not to
he still has a move like this to develop
this big area right here this is what we
say is a weaker of wimps your opponent
can attack it in sente and force you to
defend while gaining profit that means
you need to defend your group before
they get that attack and that's
basically the middle game is attacking
defense throughout the entire middle
game but other than that I'll show you
the position before it got like this
when there's not weak groups on the
board then normally like here's the
position earlier in the game
when there's not we groups on the board
like here like as a possible we group up
here defending it will probably give
what the bigger move so since white
can't gain very much by attacking gift I
would choose to play the bigger move
first probably so here black played here
and play on the side so when there's not
wheat groups or not attacking
possibilities just quite yet you'll play
the territorial moves or the next
biggest territory Goods and that's how
you think about the middle game if you
don't have an elite groups keep
extending alongside voting your
territory reducing your opponent's
territory and that's a fight between
territories so it's still kind of
fighting you're fighting to get the lead
in points so that's middle game I hope
this helps it answers all of your
questions who has developed middle game
if you have any questions please feel
free to message me thank you for
watching and hope you enjoy